Higher Order Functions Topic (#191)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: higher-order-functions/writing-higher-order-functions.md

```py
first_movie_by_title = min(movies, key=lambda movie:movie["title"])
lowest_rated_movie = min(movies, key=lambda movie:movie["rating"])
earliest_movie = min(movies, key=lambda movie:movie["release_year"])
```

## Writing a Custom Min Function

Now, let's demystify the `min` function with the optional `key` parameter by writing our own custom min function `min_function_custom`. We will use `get_first_movie` as a reference:

```py
def get_first_movie(movies):
    min_movie = movies[0]
    min_title = movies[0]["title"]
    for movie in movies:
        if movie["title"] < min_title:
            min_movie = movie
            min_title = movie["title"]
    return min_movie
```

Notice that we can replace each line with the expression `movie["title"]` with a function call `get_title(movies[0])` without changing the behavior of the function. 

```py
def get_title(movie):
    return movie["title"]

def get_first_movie(movies):
    min_movie = movies[0]
    min_title = get_title(movies[0])
    for movie in movies:
        if get_title(movie) < min_title:
            min_movie = movie
            min_title = get_title(movie)
    return min_movie
```

> Now, let's take it one step further to generalize our function to find the minimum movie by any key (i.e. `"title"`, `"rating"`, or `"release_year"`). 

Reviewer: We talk about finding the minimum of a movie based on attributes on this line, but the the description of the step removes all movie-related naming. I'm wondering if it's worth splitting out the renaming as a final step - something like "We now have a flexible custom min function for movies, but this would work for any list of dictionaries. Let's rename our variables for clarity!"

> We will add a second parameter, a function that gets the value for a specified key: `get_value_for_key`. We will generalize our variable names changing `movies` to `collection` and `movie` to `item.` Each line from `get_first_movie` that has the expression `get_title(movie)` will be replaced with `get_value_for_key(item)`.

Reviewer: Though it's not, for me, at first it felt like noticeably more changes on this step vs the previous. It might be more digestible as a slightly re-ordered list, something like:
```suggestion
We will: 
1. generalize our variable names by changing `movies` to `collection` and `movie` to `item.`
2. add a second parameter, a function that gets the value for a specified key: `get_value_for_key`.
3.  replace all uses of the expression `get_title(movie)` with a call to our new parameter `get_value_for_key(item)`.
```

*Table. Relationship between variables in specific function an generalized function.*

```py
def min_function_custom(collection, get_value_for_key):
     min_item = collection[0]
     min_value = get_value_for_key(collection[0])
     for item in collection:
         if get_value_for_key(item) < min_value:
             min_item = item
             min_value = get_value_for_key(item)
     return min_item
```

We can now class `min_function_custom` just like the built in `min` function. We can pass in a named function or a lambda expression for the `get_value_for_key` parameter

```py
first_movie_by_title = min_function_custom(movies, get_value_for_key=get_title)
lowest_rated_movie = min_function_custom(movies, get_value_for_key=get_rating)
earliest_movie = min_function_custom(
    movies, get_value_for_key=get_release_year)
```
or 

```py
first_movie_by_title = min_function_custom(
    movies, get_value_for_key=lambda movie: movie["title"])
lowest_rated_movie = min_function_custom(
    movies, get_value_for_key=lambda movie: movie["rating"])
earliest_movie = min_function_custom(
    movies, get_value_for_key=lambda movie: movie["release_year"])
```

> We can also pass the second parameter as a positional argument rather than a keyword argument:

Reviewer: I might have missed it, but I don't recall seeing an example of moving the order of arguments with keyword arguments here or in the previous lesson that introduced them. I think it'd be nice to have a callout around "keyword arguments can be passed in a different order from how they're defined, but that cannot be done with positional"
